Hello, I'm Andrew Maine and this is the
OpenAI podcast. There's a lot of
conversation and debate about the future
of AI when it comes to labor and work.
To talk about this, my guests are Brad
Lightcap, who's the Chief Operating
Officer of OpenAI, and Ronnie Chatterji,
who is the Chief Economist. We're going
to find out the kind of research OpenAI
is doing, the conversations they've been
having, and hopefully get a glimpse of
where they think the future is headed.
We had a lot of people coming back to us
and saying, "Yeah, you know, actually
this is I think one of the best things
that has maybe ever happened to this
this industry. AI is a tool that lets
people do things that they had no
ability to do otherwise. They have the
world's smartest brain at their
fingertips to solve hard problems."
So, Brad, you're the Chief Operating
Officer, you're the Chief Economist.
Explain what your roles are.
My role probably boils down mostly to
what we call deployment. So, zooming
out, OpenAI is a research and deployment
company.
And when we think about our mission,
what we really think about is not only
building AI and doing the research that
underpins the building of AI, but how do
you actually take it out into the world
and have people use it and have it be
beneficial for people, have it be safe
for people.
How is it used in one country versus
another country, one industry versus
another industry. So, I spend a lot of
time trying to figure that out. Which
means working with customers, working
with partners,
spending a lot of time with our users,
and just kind of studying kind of how
people what people want from OpenAI and
our products, how people actually use
the technology, and then as the
technology changes, how that pattern of
use changes. It it seems like cuz OpenAI
started primarily as a research org and
wasn't even sure if they were going to
do product or even put things that were
sort of public-facing. And so, how much
has this changed rapidly for you? It's
changed really quickly. I think ChatGPT
in November '22 was kind of the pivotal
moment, and it was the first time that
we really saw AI used at scale. Mhm. And
I think, you know, what we kind of and
it's interesting almost the story of how
we actually learned that and and and how
we made the decision to do ChatGPT,
which was we had previously built an API
for developers. And we had a thing, you
know, remember Andrew in our API
that was the playground
>> Yeah. where you could basically try
prompts out and see how the model would
complete the prompt. And this was back
in the days of like the models just
being purely completions-based, where
they take an input and they kind of
continue the text on, predicting the
next word in the next token in the
sequence. And people were trying to like
hack the playground to figure out how to
get it to talk to them. And they almost
you could tell people kind of wanted
this conversational interface. And so,
we kind of learned from that and we
built ChatGPT as the first version of a
conversational interface where we taught
the model how to instruction follow to
be more responsive to what people wanted
to talk about.
And that, you know, very much surprised
us and became I think the kind of
dominant paradigm of what we call the
first era of AI, which was these kind of
chatbots
that, you know, really were good enough
to to
to be engaging for people and be helpful
for people. Yeah, it seems like cuz at
the time
we kept thinking that like GPT-4 would
be finally when it was really useful.
And ChatGPT was built on top of GPT-3.5.
And it it seemed it like certainly
changing the interface was helpful, but
we thought we needed a faster, more
smarter model, but it was actually the
interface was such a big unlock, and
that was I had the problem whenever I
would do demos of GPT-3, it'd be this
blank canvas. I'd go, "Now, you do
something." And people would be like, I
I don't know what to do. But once you
put it into the chat interface, they'd
go, "Oh, well, I'll ask it a question.
I'll ask it if we do this." And that was
such a big big unlock, but then
the pace after that, like you said, was
was insane because ChatGPT exceeded
beyond any expectation here. I think
there was an expectation it would kind
of level off, but it didn't. And then
pretty soon
there was this awareness. I think people
thought AI was something in the future,
and now it came into the present. And
now
bringing in an economist to come help
map this out and figure this out. So,
what is your role? As you say, I mean,
the future has arrived more quickly than
any of us could have imagined. And so, I
joined at a time when we were deploying
intelligence at scale
into the economy and to society. And my
job is to help people understand what
the impacts of that are going to be on
businesses, their jobs, their
relationships, the way government does
policy, and develop forecasts to help
people understand how to make
investments with their time
and overall with their resources. And
so, as an economist, it's an amazing
time to join because I think we're at a
beginning of a real transformation
in the economy, and it's something that
I think people need to be prepared for.
So, the biggest job I have at at OpenAI
is developing indicators to kind of tell
us where the economy is going and
communicating that to people all over
the world cuz this is going to be bigger
than just the United States and what we
do here, but something that's actually
going to transform people's lives around
the world. Okay. So, in my experience
and limited experience of understanding
like when corporations employ
economists, often it's to figure out,
let's say, the prices of products or
things like that to make kind of
predictions. But here, your job isn't
just internal, so it's external. So, are
you how are you sharing this? What is
OpenAI doing to help people understand
where things are headed or where you
think they are? You're right. I mean,
there's a tradition of, you know,
economists joining companies and in tech
specifically,
this job was was designed a little bit
differently, and I think it reflects
that this company really has research
roots, and I think people really wanted
to be a job that side. Okay, now our
software engineers have these amazing
tools, intelligence at their fingertips
to be more productive. You know, we
might across the world write like a few
billion lines of code in a by 10x. What
could we build? What could they build if
you can write that much more code and
that much more sort of even better code
potentially than you could on your own.
That to me is a huge economic
opportunity. And so, yeah, my job is to
pick it up from that angle, understand
how a software engineer's job is
changing, how she might be using these
tools to do things she couldn't do
before, and how the organization that
she works in is also going to benefit
from that, creating more productivity
and ultimately value for the economy.
So, I I see it as a super interesting
challenge.
The other thing I'd say is like
scientific research is one I get really
excited about. So, I think taking Brad's
analogy, it's like we want to put
amazing intelligence in the hands of
scientific researchers. Why does that
matter? Because
you know, science drives growth, it
drives economic growth. And so, if we
can accelerate science, accelerate
discovery, we're going to have more
economic growth and more good things for
everybody. And so, I always think about
if I can study how science is changing
with our with the use of our products,
then it'll be a useful contribution in
terms of economics, but also just the
world. Yeah, I want to I want to touch
on that a second, but what in the
software space, I think you've seen
there's a been a I've seen a lot of
people have a concern because all of a
sudden companies are saying, "Oh, we
don't need as many developers now." But
I I I would say the broader picture is
we're never going to be done writing
software. There is always going to be
more need for software than there is
right now. And I think the challenge is
that some of the bigger companies are
getting a bit disrupted or internally,
but
we need to think about where the smaller
companies, the more agile ones, are
going to come in and where they're going
to come from because I think small teams
can do a lot more. And has that been
something you've observed where, you
know, let's say some companies are
saying, "Okay, we can do more with this
tool." And what we're seeing smaller
companies come forth with new solutions.
Yeah, for sure. And I think that is the
trend line of AI. Fundamentally is the
the world is rate limited by talent, by
people.
Real, you know, economic growth in in
the world rounds to zero in most places.
And why is that, right? It's because
it's really hard for the average
company, whether it's a small business,
a large business, you know, a financial
services company, an insurance broker, a
hospital, to find people that can
actually produce better tools, better
systems, and ultimately better outcomes
for customers. And if you go ask kind of
any company, you go ask any company in
Silicon Valley, you know, where
if they need to hire more engineers, the
answer's almost always yes. And this is
this is the Mecca of engine, you know,
of software engineering.
Now imagine what the rest of the world
looks like. And so just taking software
engineering as an example, we see it as
not only incredibly, you know, there
being incredible opportunity to inflect
outcomes for those company, you know,
for companies large and small, but we
see it really as incumbent on OpenAI to
be able to build the tool sets, the
models, all the, you know, the
safeguards, all of the the compliance
schemas and all that, to be able to
actually serve these these tools in the
places that they need to be. And it's
it's interesting kind of the the
polarity of it. I think you know, on on
the one hand you've got this tool set
that is going to be incredibly enabling
of people who have no sophistication on
the subject matter. So you've got
companies now building tools that are
enabling people to build software who've
never written a code line of code in
their life.
And on the other hand you've got these
tools that are incredibly sophisticated
in taking, you know, level 10 engineers
and making them 50% 2x more productive.
And it's a remarkable thing that you can
get both of those effects. I something I
thought was interesting was using the
the modern
case example where they deployed ChatGPT
Enterprise. And one of the things that
happened internally was you had people
developing their own GPTs. And sometimes
people go, what's happened to GPTs
externally, but I think that's been
interesting thing is internally somebody
who may not have thought about how to
build an agent or something like that
who may not be technically inclined is
able to do that. And has that been a
common trend with other companies that
are now just building on top of the
platform?
Yeah, I mean I I think that is
fundamentally kind of how this is going
to work. I think AI at its core and its
essence is a tool that kind of lets
people do things that they had no
business or ability to do otherwise. And
there's going to be kind of crazy
outcomes that come from that. I think
it's kind of somewhat unpredictable. And
if you kind of look in the long arc of
history of what makes for these kind of
disruptive platform shifts, to me the
thing that is kind of demarcating of
that is when you now have people who
actually have the capability to go off
and do some something at either a much
higher level of productivity or
something that's parallel to the the
core thing they're doing that they
couldn't do before, where they were kind
of rate limited or gated on someone else
being able to having to do that thing
for them. And so that's GPTs are a good
example of how you now have someone who
can configure what could be a fairly
complex workflow, right? And it's on us
to continue to build a product that
enables even more complex workflows over
time as the models get really good.
And that's that's a remarkable thing.
What sectors do you see being impacted
next?
I you know, I think that we're just
scratching the surface when it comes to
scientific research, areas like drug
discovery, material sciences. I think
the next couple years you're going to
see massive discoveries in those spaces
for the reasons that Brad is talking
about. When I think about science, I I
think about endless corridor with doors
on either side. And scientists,
researchers in companies have to make
decisions about where they're going to
explore. And that that's a rate limiting
sort of situation. To to Brad's point,
you can't explore every door. But what
our tools can help you do is actually
look behind all those doors and take a
peek and figure out where you want to
spend the time working on the hardest
problems. And I think if we can
accelerate science in that way, you're
going to see massive discoveries coming
out of private sector labs, national
laboratories like many of the ones we're
already working with, and the public
sector. And so I expect those areas in
research to really be transformed over
the next couple years. I think you'll
see a lot of different discoveries that
we wouldn't have thought possible
happening more quickly. I think another
area is going to be on sort of
professional services. Like we both work
a lot and know a lot of folks who are in
these industries, either whether it's
private equity, investment banking,
consulting. So much of the work there
that people are doing,
we can augment that work by, you know, I
think about the way I use our tools to
create slide decks or prepare for a
presentation. I can now focus on the
higher value and higher margin things
that are important for my job now that I
can use our tools to do some of these
things that I was going to have to do
myself. And so I see professional
services as a key area where a lot of
consultants, bankers, and private equity
executives are going to be able to use
this in a big way. So those are two
areas I see finance and science-driven
discovery companies being really
revolutionized by our tools.
And I would say it's not just the on the
science side at least, it's not just the
depth of any individual step of the
work. So certainly like you can now do
this, you know, more multi-faceted
exploration for any given thing, but
it's the breadth across the the span of
the work that these models can reason
over. So having these systems able to
understand, if you know, if you look at
kind of how a drug gets developed, for
example, there's like, you know, some
number of insanely complex discrete
steps in that process that all require
kind of handoff at various points to a
lot of different people who all have to
kind of gather context from the person
before them and kind of prepare context
for the person that comes after them.
And you can actually schematically break
it down.
And have models basically woven across
that entire workflow. Not only are you
enabling the scientist to go deeper, but
you're actually enabling the people who
work with and around the scientist to
actually kind of accelerate the the end
product, you know, ultimately to a
better outcome and and ultimately
faster.
One of the
one of the limitations I've seen from
one of the companies I've worked with,
they're doing drug discovery. And the
models are great at suggesting things,
but it still comes down to the clinical
trial and the lab bench and things like
that. And hopefully we'll find ways to
accelerate that, but what are there some
of the other limitations either to what
these things can do or bottlenecks for
us seeing
sort of the benefits? I think human
judgment is actually making it's going
to be really important. I actually think
it might be more important. You know,
what we're finding in a lot of research,
and I'll I'll one of my colleagues at in
this is David Deming at Harvard. He has
this research that shows that people who
are great at leading teams, let's say
someone like Brad at the top of the
company, they're also the same people
who are great leading agents. And I
think that a lot of the skills that let
people be make great judgments, lead
teams, they're going to be even more
important and at a higher premium in
this economy. And so I feel a situation
like this where firms are using drug
discovery, you're still going to need
the judgment of experts. You're going to
need refinements on the experiments and
you're going to need help in terms of
scaling. I also think there's other
institutional changes though that might
accelerate science. Clinical trials come
from an old world of how we used to test
drugs for safety and efficacy. Those are
really important. But everything from
the sample sizes to how you enroll
people, I mean our tools can be hugely
helpful in those areas. So I feel like
you're going to see it in drug
discovery, but you're also going to see
it in every part of the value chain for
let's say a pharma biotech company that
might ultimately not just increase the
rate of discovery, but the rate of
commercialization and scale. That's my
hope. You just mentioned agents, and I
think it's a word that's kind of like
the word of the year. People hear it and
sort of there's all sorts of definitions
of it. Do you want to take a stab at
that and kind of see how you guys see
that playing out?
I mean I'll I'll probably get you know,
yelled at by someone
>> No, it will not be controversial at all.
Everybody will agree with your
definition.
I mean for me agents I have a very high
bar. It has to be a it has to be a
system that can be reliably handed
complex work that it can take on
autonomously,
you know, and
and execute at a high level of
proficiency. Where it hasn't seen that
work before. And that last part is a
critical piece is these aren't just
things that are trained to copy. They
have to be things that kind of
implicitly leverage the reasoning
ability of the model to solve new
problems.
And this is going to be important in a
lot of domains. And so people use the
word agent. I think there's maybe an
enterprise productivity context of it.
There's maybe a science,
you know, kind of context of it. There's
a
a software engineering context of it,
but the kind of common thread for me is
it has to be something that you can
actually hand something to. You almost
work in tandem with, kind of like a
teammate. And you know, that teammate
could be a scientist. It could be a
software engineer. It could be a a data
scientist.
>> a hypothetical example of like a kind of
task? Yeah, I mean I I think software
engineering is is has has an obvious
set, which is, you know, you could ask
ask it to basically go off and and
actually write code for you.
And, you know, and then kind of
similarly go do the QA, go do
all the unit testing, go, you know,
automate kind of meaningful parts of
this process of the, you know, of code
writing. And you know, in a different
context I would say it's
you know, it's working with
agents that can make your
your sales teams more efficient. So
slotting into parts of your sales funnel
where you have a volume problem. Where
it's like, okay, I've got, you know,
100,000 inbound leads for a thing, but
I've got five people to look at them.
Can you actually have an agent that can
ingest those leads and and understand
those leads, process them, qualify them,
move them through your funnel,
recommend, you know, who should talk to
who, recommend all the follow-up steps,
and ultimately kind of drive a lead
toward a conversion.
So it's a it's a generalizable concept
that kind of maps in any number of
areas. Do you see it like like where I
might email an agent or something and
say, okay, I need to and just treat it
like I would another employee?
Yeah, I think that's kind of the the
interesting part of it is that, you
know, in some sense um
there's the the the kind of the input
mechanisms
will be specific I think to the the the
the user, right? It's if you are a
software engineer, you may want that
agent living in your IDE.
If you're a scientist, you may want it
living in the software you use that you
do experiment design and execution with.
If you are, you know,
doing, you know, user operations or
customer support, you may want it
sitting in your inbox because that's
where your work happens. And so, how do
you build product that is intelligence
underneath, but is accessible into kind
of any number of surfaces and can be,
you know, without the without without
compromising the
reliability and the the power of the
system? It's actually a hard product
problem. I have friends that are
pretty
chat GPT focused, you know, power users
and have heard comments from before of
like wanting to sort of do more with it.
And even small business owners, too. The
idea that if they could have like a
virtual chat GPT agent or something like
that. Is that something that you see in
a near-term horizon that
you know, I would be able to like get it
to take care of a lot of the little work
that there's just
not enough hands to do?
I think it's I mean, it's a really
amazing near-term application in my
view. You know, you think about the
limits around the world of growing the
economy. One of the biggest ones is
small business. There's what they call
in economics a missing middle in so many
countries where you got a bunch of small
businesses and you have a few large
businesses, but the small businesses
don't grow large. And that was a big
benefit to the US economy that our small
businesses and entrepreneurs can
actually grow and scale. In most places
around the world, that's not true. Why
is that not true? Because they often
don't have the mentorship, the coaching,
the support, the advice to actually know
what to do to grow their business. Now,
imagine you democratize an AI agent that
understands the basics of how to grow a
restaurant business or an e-commerce
business. And that's relatively easy to
do in terms of instantiating that kind
of intelligence into an agent. And then
a small business owner could leverage
that advice and say, "Hey,
oh, maybe I should change a menu item or
hire a sales rep or do something
different with my strategy that could
help them grow." And I think for small
business owners around the world,
including the United States, tremendous
opportunity to get sort of small
business advice, evidence-based advice
from agents. I'm very interested in and
I know a bunch of folks around the world
are working on.
So,
I want to I want to address that one on
the evidence-based approach in a second,
but
tell us more about what you're seeing
from like developing economies cuz I
know that's a big area of concern. It's
one of the fears is that there's a lot
of kind of like
kind of lower-level knowledge work
that's done in developing economies and
the fear is that AI is going to take
that away. But you just brought up the
fact that there are these limiters there
that all of a sudden get unlocked. I
think there's a lot of opportunities we
should be talking about as well.
I know that when I work in emerging
markets, there's a lot of human scaling
problems. It's related to what the
rate-limiting factor is that Brad talked
about with Silicon Valley hiring
engineers. One of the biggest returns on
investment in Africa is agricultural
extension support. What that means is
helping a farmer figure out what kinds
of seeds he should be using, what kind
of fertilizer he should be using,
what kind of farming techniques he
should do to get the most out of his
land cuz a lot of people are small-scale
subsistence farmers. If we can increase
productivity for that farmer 10, 20,
30%, it is life-changing. And we have
people who are trained up to do that,
but there's not enough of them. Mhm. And
when these extension support services
are offered, there's always someone,
probably 10, who don't get the service
for every one person who does.
Now, imagine that we could have
intelligence provided to those 10 who
never got that service to begin with.
And I think when you think about
agricultural extension support scaling
with our tools, it's a huge opportunity
to improve lives of people in sort of
lower-income countries and emerging
markets, particularly in agriculture.
I'd say the small business one is
another example. You know, we know from
the United States, one of the best ways
to move up the income and wealth ladder
is start a business. That should be true
in other places, too, but there's so
many limits to scaling and often it is
hiring the right person or getting the
right advice. And so, those are two
opportunities I think if we can do this
right, are going to make a huge impact
for the positive in most parts of the
world. My mother-in-law is in India and
she has a candy company and she uses
chat GPT a lot to help her plan menus
and recipes and write stuff. And it's
been an interesting sort of
unlock because now I've seen I think she
really did was would had quite quality
before, but now it let her basically
spend more time on other things. Yeah.
And so, it's it's it's interesting cuz
like you've seen like in African
development where
cellular was a bigger change than
anybody predicted. It was you you took a
country like Kenya which maybe like
5% of the population had phones and it
was all controlled by the government or
something. Then when cellular came
through, then you had people able to
like figure out how to go to market, you
had all sorts of commerce stuff things.
And what what changes are you seeing
right now with chat GPT or like
technologies? I mean, to your point,
first if if your mother-in-law's running
an Indian sweet company, I got three
little interns in my household who'd
love to join. So, just let us know if
there's a job opening. But uh
this is where the disruption is like
both exciting
and I also understand it induces
anxiety. But you're exactly right. When
you look at the Kenyan experiment, when
they leapfrogged a generation of
technology, when new innovations came
out, we're now doing something very
radical, which is putting intelligence
in individuals' hands, right? When they
have a chat GPT account or subscription,
they have the world's smartest brain at
their fingertips to solve hard problems.
It's not intermediated by a government
or a big business. It's it's something
they can use to solve problems. And I'm
really optimistic about the problems
people are going to choose to solve. One
of the coolest things about this
organization is we don't really tell you
what problems to solve. Like that was
one of the most interesting things I
think here is like when you think about
how people are using chat GPT, it's a
wide, diverse set of uses. Much less how
they're building on the API, right, with
our developers. And so, people will
choose to solve the problems that are
most relevant to them. And that's going
to be incredibly sort of transform
transform for their lives, but also
disruptive because, right, they're going
to be able to have that power that they
didn't have before. And I think when I
think about it as an economist, those
are the kinds of transitions I want to
study. I want to understand. I want to
make easier for individuals,
organizations, and society. And I think
the level you're talking about that
happened in Kenya and other parts of the
world, this is a much bigger transition
that we're on the verge of. So, it's
something that my team spends a lot of
time thinking about when we look at
data, not just looking at the US and
Europe, but looking at other parts of
the world.
You mentioned before in working with
agents how having sort of I guess
managerial skills or the ability to
delegate is important. Could you expand
on that and also maybe like what other
skills might be important that people
need to be thinking about that they want
to develop? AI is interesting because it
really is kind of a reflection of your
your will, right, and your desire. And I
think
you it it sky's the limit kind of in
terms of what it can do for you, right?
If you wake up one day and you decide
you want to start a business, that just
got meaningfully easier. If you wake up
one day and you decide you want to build
a piece of software, right, that got
meaningfully easier. And so, there's an
incredible level of agency I think
that's required to extract the most out
of AI. I think as we think about kind of
where the product moves,
our job is to try and lower the bar so
that there's you don't
you can basically simplify the kind of
the the path from idea in your brain to
to outcome.
And, you know, there's interesting ways
in a meta sense the models can actually
help help do that. But I think that, you
know, the that's probably to me the kind
of really important important thing is
that agency is going to matter a lot.
There's going to there's going to be
you're going to see the the rewards
accrue to people who
are
you know, as Sam said it the other day,
it's like the the return of the idea guy
in some sense.
It's it's the people that I think can,
you know, not only figure out what it is
that they want and, you know, what the
what good looks like, but then can kind
of figure out how to activate the
systems to be able to work on their
behalf. And there's going to be people
that do that incredibly well. And I, you
know, one of my kind of personal bars
for
for how impactful our work ends up being
is will you see the rise of companies
that are one, two, five, 10 people that
are doing a billion dollars in revenue,
right? That's kind of the ultimate
agency outcome if you think about it.
It's like you have a
very small set of people capable of
commanding, you know, what could be this
very
large-scale enterprise,
you know, mostly because they are
opinionated about things like sales,
marketing, product, software
engineering, and so on. And I think
that's going to be a really cool cool
thing to see.
Mark Benioff had said something along
the lines of that they weren't going to
be hiring any more software engineers,
which maybe they over-hired, too. I
don't know. But then that they were
going to be increasing the number of
sales
people. And I think that often people
hear the word sales and they think
somebody who calls you up randomly or
cold calls, but sales is actually a big
part of it is people who are networked,
who know a lot of other people. I think
that's what he was talking about was
what was going to be really valuable to
the growth
were humans with human connections. And
is this something you've seen data to
back this up or to see this as a
high-growth coming out on this is
showing that EQ matters a lot. You know,
a lot of people think in this world
that's getting more and more
technologically sophisticated, all of a
sudden the the soft skills, the social
skills, being able to connect with
people would be less valuable. It's
actually the opposite. Once you make
these
abilities and these capabilities
democratized to be able to write code,
for example, then some of the other
things actually start to matter more in
the market. And so, I'm not surprised at
all that sales people who have, you
know, deep technical knowledge, and we
have many here in in Brad's org and
across the organization, are going to be
at a premium or around around um the
world cuz those are the people going to
be able to connect the dots, use their
EQ plus their technical expertise to
solve problems. And I feel like when
you're thinking about what skills we
want in the economy, that's going to be
a key part of it as well as critical
thinking and decision-making. We're
still going to need people to identify
those problems to chase after, right?
And that's where Brad talked about the
agency combined with the ability to
target the right problem is going to be
at such a premium. I expect that to be
really important.
I've seen in tech, I think there's this
over-indexing on IQ and horsepower. And
I'm a big believer that I think these
systems are going to be able to do just
about any cognitive task we can think
about. But you you brought up EQ, which
I think is a really important one. I
don't think that enough attention gets
paid to that because I I know some small
companies that scaled really big and
they built great products. I can't get
anybody on the phone. I can't talk to
anybody because they're just focusing
purely on the technical component and
not where they exist in the network of
people and everything else like that.
And what are ways that somebody right
now who wants to be, you know, find
themselves in a, you know, very aligned
position with the future? How do they
build these skills? How do they work
towards that? And how do organizations
find people or foster that? I mean, I
think it starts in schools. Like, you
know, one of the really exciting things
about the moment we're at is education's
going to change. And I know that also
creates a lot of excitement and anxiety,
but I think so many things that we're
learning in school, I have younger kids
and so in the elementary school grades,
they're going to be even more relevant.
You know, what are you teaching people
when they come into pre-K or
kindergarten? You're teaching them how
to be a human. And I can't think of a
better set of skills to learn now than
how to be a human. Because that's going
to be sort of how you become a better
complement for this amazing
intelligence. You know, as an economist
you think about two constructs,
substitution, which creates a lot of the
anxiety, but also complements.
If humans can become complements to
intelligence and leverage it with AI,
you see,
that is going to be the unlock. And I
feel like a lot of schooling in the
early stages, even now, and it'll be
more so as we go forward, is teaching
those kind of soft skills and how to be
a human. Later on, critical thinking,
financial numeracy with numbers, still
going to be really important. I mean, my
kids have calculators, but I still want
to teach them how to do multiplication
tables. Dictation software that works
really well, I still teach them how to
write. You'll need those skills and
you'll need a sense of some other kind
of higher order cognitive skills,
resilience, grit, things that they're
going to need to adjust to these changes
in the market. So, when a CEO says,
"Look, we're looking for more somebody
like this instead of that,"
students in the future are going to be
able to prepare to pivot in the right
way and have that baseline skill. That's
kind of how I think about people
preparing. I think education will play a
big role. I think work experience at
great organizations can play a role,
too. Those are the two areas.
I've been advising some students. I
don't want to name the college, but it's
in
the Bay Area. It's a pretty good
college.
They have a pretty good CS computer
science program.
Do you know how many days they spent in
the last semester learning how to use
tools like WinSurf or Cursor?
I don't know. Don't tell us. I Zero.
Zero. None. None of their professors
have taught them anything about how to
use AI coding agency. They're probably
They're probably all using it in the
background.
>> Yeah. Oh, yeah, they are. And and I'm
also tell the ones that aren't, I'm
strongly encouraging them to that. And I
think that was
that was sort of for me a surprising
thing to find out that at that level
they're about to be put out in the
workforce and they're not even getting a
date. And I understand, you want them to
understand the fundamentals, you want
them to understand that, but you know,
they're going to be applying for jobs. I
help them put together projects and
stuff so they can get jobs in places,
but what is OpenAI's role in policy both
from education and policy makers and
stuff and trying to advise or influence?
It's a good question. I think, you know,
there's no question that we're headed
toward
an overhaul, I think, of kind of how the
education system works. I think that
will be a positive overhaul. I mean, you
know, at the most kind of reduced level,
right? What what is it that we're
building? You've got this thing now that
is this
kind of personal tutor of every person
on Earth, right? It And as it gets
better, it will start to understand you
better. It'll understand stand your rate
of learning better. It'll understand how
you like consuming information, right?
Do you Are you more visual? Are you more
quantitative? Do you need things
explained certain ways?
We've had with the amount of feedback we
get from people, for example, even with
with children who are dyslexic trying to
learn and the impediment that that
creates in the learning process and ways
that AI can unblock,
you know, learning for those for that
population. It's consistent. And so, I
think that, you know, the the entire
kind of way that we think about
education and what education is in the
country will will have to adapt. I think
it'll be good, though. I think it will
force in some ways our systems to think
about, you know, what are the ways that
people will use these tools in the
future. I think
we, you know, the the example you gave
is in some ways surprising, but in some
ways not.
I think the the people adapt faster than
the institutions,
but the question here will be, you know,
how do we work with policy makers and
with the institutions themselves to try
and help the institutions adapt. I think
the ones that do, though, will have this
incredible accelerant. I think that you
will see
the outcomes among students
and the the ways that they think about,
you know, what this tool can do in the
classroom
will will just fundamentally change for
the better.
And it will also then free up teachers,
free up students to spend more time on
things that are going to be the kind of
high leverage skills of the future that
Ronnie mentioned. So, things like
decision-making, things like critical
thinking, you know, tool-based
problem-solving,
how do you you know, how do you kind of
develop agency and conviction early in
children? I think that that type of
thing is going to be, you know, super
important as opposed to a curriculum
that today you know, reinforces things
like memorization, regurgitation, and so
on.
Yeah. And I also say, I mean, I'm pretty
optimistic that we can make these
changes in the education system. And I
think it's going to come from teachers
and students the way Brad's talking
about. Like in the early '60s,
President Kennedy said we were going to
put a man on the moon. And if you look
at what we actually had in terms of
national assets at that time and like
the scientific capabilities,
that was a pretty far off goal. But
during that decade, we dramatically
increased the number of people doing
PhDs in sciences and engineering as
people geared up for this challenge. And
so, I do think there's a really strong
role for leadership across sectors to
kind of sound the clarion call and say,
"Look, this is where we're going to go."
And I when I think about OpenAI, I think
about we have a we have the best
information about where the technology
is going. That's an important role to
play to let people understand, "Here's
what we're building." And other people
in society, education leaders,
government leaders, business leaders and
other sectors will be able to see it
from their perspective. But if we put
that that call out there, I think you're
going to see a lot of dynamic dynamic
changes across. And you know, Brad and I
are both loyal Dukies, of course, and at
Duke I expect the curriculum in computer
science and in economics to be really
different 5 years from now in a lot of
positive ways. And I expect a lot of
experimentation, you know, beyond
whether you can use ChatGPT to study or
how you regulate in the classroom as a
professor, really important points. I
don't want to downplay that. But more
important is how are you going to use
this stuff to do do stuff topics in your
curriculum, help students who maybe
can't learn from a graph but can learn
from a oral presentation or, you know,
teach students the same thing though in
three different ways so everyone in the
class gets it. There's so much amazing
stuff that'll happen. I do think it'll
happen. I think we have a history here
in the United States and you'll see this
around the world as well, but I know the
US is the best where we've actually
responded pretty dynamically to some of
these big challenges. Can you talk a bit
about OpenAI's engagement with educators
and policy makers specifically about
what
you are doing?
To start I can start with the example of
Cal State University. So, you know, for
those of you from California who spend a
lot of time here, Cal State is like, you
know, just the ultimate unlock for
students who are first generation, whose
parents
maybe they come from another country or
they haven't attended higher education.
Those are the kids that Cal State
specializes in. And those are the those
are the students that Cal State has
traditionally, for its long illustrious
history, taken to the next level. And
so, we're proud to, you know, to work
with them. And you know, this is
something that comes from from what Brad
is talking about, the the research and
deployment. Someone like me picks it up
and says, "Okay, now that we're working
with this great institution,
how are we going to maximize the
outcomes for students when they go for
that first interview? Can we prepare
them with the skills they need to to do
well?
Can we track their career outcomes over
time and say, 'You know what, having
access to this intelligence made a huge
difference.'" And so, that engagement
has led me to work with administrators
at CSU,
researchers, and once we get everything
in order, students ultimately to make
sure we're going to make a big
difference. And so, for me it's been a
great interaction and it's been
facilitated by the deployment we've done
with CSU. So, that's an education
example.
I mean, education's been for us the
fastest growing segment that uses
ChatGPT and other OpenAI tools. So,
it surprised us a little bit, I think,
in some ways. You know, we knew early on
when we launched ChatGPT that it had a
resonance with students and that was
it was clearly applicable to the way
that people wanted to learn,
engage with information, engage with
knowledge, test their own learning
ability and skill set.
And
what funny side story is we when we
right after we launched ChatGPT, we
launched it in November of '22,
we had basically the kind of remainder
of that school year where
I think there was a lot of upheaval, I
would say, in in that sector and you
probably remember this.
And for a while we all looked at each
other here and we're like, "Man, we, you
know, I don't know what this is going to
ultimately lead to for us, but, you
know, and and is all this stuff
ultimately going to get banned?"
Something over the summer of '23 as the
school year changed over, I don't know
what it was that went around, but
when when everyone came back in the
fall,
the level of enthusiasm and I think the
level of forward-lookingness of the of
the leadership in kind of the broader
American educational system
had changed and it was
they we had a lot of people coming back
to us and saying, "You know, actually
this is I think one of the best things
that is maybe ever happened to this this
industry. It's meaningfully changed how
my students are learning. We're starting
to develop perspective on how people are
really using this. And not only do we
have that perspective, I actually want
to extend and develop that perspective
so that I can figure out how to better
use this in my classroom, work it into
my curriculum, challenge students in new
ways, right? Figure out ways that we can
actually have it surface gaps and
vulnerabilities in certain student
populations that maybe aren't getting
the attention they need. So, all that
work now kind of is culminated in work
that we're doing internally with an EDU
team here at OpenAI to try and work more
with the sector. You know, Ronnie
mentioned the Cal State example is just
one of many examples of of ways that
we're we're trying to to to engage. And
so, part of it is product building, part
of it is is engagement, part of it is
policy, but we are going to take kind of
a whole of company approach to it. I
remember, I won't name the school
system, but they famously had banned it.
They're like, "Ah, we're banning this to
use in the school system." And then I'd
heard anecdotally that a number of
teachers within had been using it having
really positive outcomes for many of the
reasons you pointed out, you know,
I helped do a study when I was here and
one of the number one feedback we got
was from students was it doesn't judge
you. ChatGPT doesn't judge you. And it
was a great way if you're feeling you're
going behind or whatever to to ask
questions and up to speed. and then we
saw that some of the teachers were
getting really good results in the
classroom, and then went to the school
system and said, "Listen, no, we we need
this. This is something we've been
sorely lacking." And there was a kind of
a famous reversal on that. And that was
I think like That happened faster than I
expected. And would you say that you're
seeing probably a faster adoption than
you'd been expecting, or was I just not
with it? Uh I've been seeing it. I mean,
I think you're right. There was that
transformation sometime in 2023 where
people realized, "Wow, we can unlock a
lot of value here for students and for
professors." And maybe what happened
over that summer, I don't know, maybe it
happened for me. One of the biggest
barriers to innovation for new faculty
members, let's say, at a university is
developing new curriculum. So, someone
says, "Look, hey, this topic's hot. Why
don't you develop a whole class on it?"
Professors want to help their students,
they want to introduce some new
material, but there's a huge cost as it
puts together against your research,
your other teacher responsibilities. But
all of a sudden, I can use the tools in
ChatGPT to develop that syllabus. I can
make a great entrepreneurship in AI
syllabus now much more quickly than I
could before. It can help me decide how
to decide at what classes I'm going to
teach, the slides I might use, the
readings I might assign, even discussion
questions for my students.
When you lower the barriers to creating
new content, it becomes even more
exciting for a professor to try
something new or a teacher in the K-12
context. So, I feel actually that now as
faculty and teachers are unlocking that,
you're seeing a lot more adoption. I
think the other thing is that
at the end of the day, introducing
students to new ideas they wouldn't have
had anyway or otherwise is such an
amazing thing. Any teacher, right, sees
that and there's a spark. And that's
going to make them want to find a way to
use those tools. We definitely need, you
know, rules and policies they'll set up
at the school level. That's really
important when and how students use
these tools. That's That's going to be
key. And I imagine those will be worked
out, and there'll be variation across
different educational institutions. But
but I have no doubt that it's going to
be a huge part of education given how
valuable it is. We talked about this a
little bit before we started recording,
which is
there has been years and years, you
know, centuries of speculation of what
happens when you have intelligent
systems, well, how's that going to
disrupt the world, whatever. And now
we're in the place where actually
starting to see this happen, and we
realize that I think a lot of it was
fanfic, and it was just so scenarios,
and the scenarios playing out and it's
very different. And I think your
approach has been you're very
evidence-based. It's the idea that you
prefer research over theory. And
where are you directing your research
right now for impact and guidance for
policy?
For my work, at least on the economic
research part, that narrow piece of it,
I've been thinking about a couple
things. One is which sectors are going
to be affected first. I think what I can
do to help the organization, but also
the world is if I can identify that
sectors like health care and education
might be transformed more quickly, let's
say, than retail and finance, that's a
really important insight to provide to
the world. Cuz if people are in those
sectors and thinking about their jobs
and what they can do, it both unlocks
opportunity on the enterprise side, but
also helps people plan their careers and
make their investments. So, one of my
big goals is to figure out which sectors
are going to be influenced first and by
how much. The next thing I've been
thinking a lot about is which countries,
which geographies are going to be most
affected. I don't think that's really
helpful. When I look at previous
technological transformations where
people were left behind, a lot of the
impacts were geographically
concentrated. Let's say, for in big
manufacturing hubs in the upper Midwest
in the United States during the last
transition. And when you look at that
disruption and the scarring that
happened over many decades afterwards, I
realized that if we can develop good
indicators of where in terms of
geography these effects are going to be
most pronounced, that's going to be
really really helpful. So, my team
spends a lot of time on that as well.
And the last piece is communicating it.
You know, a lot of economists, or if I
was in academia, that's sort of the last
piece, the piece you like to tack on
there and say, "Okay, well, you know,
somebody besides my mother is going to
read my paper with its, you know, 33
appendices."
In this job, especially given the
privilege that I have to be close to the
researchers who are changing the world,
I got to be able to translate that for
for real people. So, those are the three
aspects I think, sort of where
geographically, which industries, and
explain to the world how that's coming.
And that's kind of where the evidence
base that I at least want to develop is
coming from. It It seems like a big
unlock that kind of went unnoticed was
when ChatGPT went to from you had to
have a credit card, you had to have, you
know, your login and all that, to now
you just go to openai.com, and you can
just use it, which just increased
accessibility around the world. And, you
know, I think it's been iPhones now, and
seeing that kind of roll out there,
which I think was a really good
democratization of it, was the idea that
it went from, you know, only a certain
part of the world was going to have
access to it, to now anybody in, you
know, unrestricted countries you're able
to use that, which I think is great. I
think that's that's It's very cool. You
mentioned, though, research into sectors
are going to be affected. What have you
found out so far? So far, I think the
sectors that are less regulated, where
there's less, let's say, sort of red
tape, rules of the road that need to be
followed, those are the sectors going to
change the quickest, right? And so, some
sectors like health care, for very good
reasons, we have sort of HIPAA
protecting patient privacy, we have
rules on how care is delivered. These
are really important parts of the US
health care system, and they are similar
around the world. Those are sectors that
are going to be harder to change, right?
And they're going to be slower to adopt
new technological tools. And that's not
just true for AI, it's true for previous
incarnations of technology. IT moves
slower into health care and education
than it did into other sectors. So, I
think where you have sort of high levels
of regulation and compliance
requirements, you'll see slower
adoptions and those jobs changing slower
as a result. Doesn't mean we can't
unlock a lot of productivity in health
care delivery and education. Um in
education, we're seeing this on the
student side and teachers, but overall,
like implementation, I think you'll see
it move faster in sectors where the
regulations aren't as sort of
significant as you are in those two
sectors. That's That's key. And the
other thing you'll see is where the
workforce is going to embrace it. Brad
made a good point earlier. It's like
this happened with enterprise software.
People brought tools to work, like new
storage solutions, and then their CTO
was like, "Hey, what are you doing
there?" right? And then eventually,
they're like, "Wait, this thing you're
bringing is actually the whole company
should adopt it." In sectors where you
have highly skilled workers who are
bringing these tools to work, using
things like ChatGPT, building on our
API, those sectors are going to
transform more quickly. And that's why I
think places like finance, right, sort
of research drug discovery type
organizations, that's places where I
think you're going to have those people
bringing it to work to solve problems. I
expect those sectors to move pretty
fast. What career advice are you giving
your children?
That's the hardest question.
Um and what I tell my kids is when I was
growing up, I was a son of immigrants,
right? So, like, if your parents are
from a certain part of the world, the
advice you might get would be there's
only two choices, right? There's like,
be a doctor or be an engineer. If you're
really creative, you can be a biomedical
engineer. Okay, so there's like a real
narrow set of choices.
Why would parents give those advice to
kids? It's because it's like they would
predict these are going to be the stable
professions. But during the course of
that generation, health care changed a
ton, right? We had managed care, a lot
of physicians work for hospitals. The
job is so different than the generation
that was giving that advice thought it
would be. Engineering, I mean, Brad
talked about this earlier, has changed
dramatically. We never had full
precision and full predictability to
say, "Your kid should do this." In fact,
many of the jobs we have today, we
didn't have names for them in 1940. So,
first, I have a dose of humility, which
is like, it was never easy to tell our
kids what to do or guarantee they would
listen. For my kids, though, I reflect
back on what we talked about, which is
you've got to learn how to be a critical
thinker and identify problems. Develop a
point of view to have the agency Brad's
talking about. You have to have the
neuroplasticity, resilience, flexibility
to be able to adapt because the world is
going to change a lot. If you think
about what's happening in AI, changes to
our climate, changes to geopolitics,
you're going to have to adapt a lot. And
the last piece, I do think that the EQ
and the financial numeracy will be
really really important as they navigate
their careers. In terms of predicting
what their job title is going to be, I
don't think I have any more information
than my parents did, and and I think
they're going to be okay.
It's an interesting note that like the
title may change, actually the title may
stay the same, but the the work may
change. I One of my favorite anecdotes
was Dan Bricklin, the guy who created
VisiCalc. He had
In the 1970s, he was a high-level
programmer, extremely capable. And
programming was changing a lot then, and
you're moving into object-oriented
programming and libraries and stuff. And
he thought that programming jobs were
going to become more scarce. And so, he
actually left to go get his MBA. And as
well staring at the back the blackboards
with all the figures, he's like, "Why
doesn't somebody make like an electronic
spreadsheet?" And then he invented
VisiCalc. And it was just funny, though,
to read how he thought that programming
job was ending in the 1970s. And I kind
of think that it is changing a lot now,
but you mentioned about how if you're
somebody who's running, you know, an AI
software tool, you're kind of managing a
project. It's project management. And
having the technical skills is certainly
critical. And I've heard this a lot,
like, why bother learning to code? And
I'm like, you know, do I want an airline
pilot that doesn't know aerodynamics?
You know, what are other skills you
think are still going to be
mattering, you know, in the future?
Well, I think the direction of travel of
technology is toward always toward
individual empowerment. I think if you
look at trend like trend-wise every kind
of past technological revolution and
every every past phase change, it it
always
drives toward the individual and what
the individual is capable of. So, you
know, 1900, you had 40% of the US
economy working in agriculture. Today,
it's 2%, right? And we produce some
multiple
more,
agricultural output than we did in 1900.
Uh and you can run a large farm with a
small fraction of the number of people
it would have taken to run a large farm
in 1900.
And so, now what happens when that, you
know, you get that same phenomenon kind
of applied what widely across the
economy and in sectors where
historically we haven't had that
phenomenon, right? But
and I think that there are a lot of
places that would benefit from a
phenomenon like that.
And that's not to say that there's a,
you know, it's an argument for job
displacement, for example, but
I think that the argument here is
toward, you know, higher economic output
kind of per unit of input. And that
fundamentally is what drives economic
growth. But people are resilient. They
find other places to to to to to go
work. And when you create the kind of
local level, the micro level
empowerment, you tend to create, you
know, have the second and third or
third-order effects of of other jobs
that get created that that we couldn't
have foreseen,
you know, in in And so,
you know, it would be weird to tell
someone in 1900 for example that there
are people today whose entire job is to
make content for a small little device
that people consume, you know, many many
hours a day. And that those people can
make a perfectly kind of viable economic
living.
It would seem like a it would seem like
something that was almost kind of
unimaginable that, you know, would
exist, but it does.
And so, there will be that kind of
second set of changes and second and
third order impacts.
But I think that, you know, I always
kind of come back to
the
kind of individual empowerment point of
the direction of travel being toward
more people being able to do a lot more
with a lot less.
And then, you know, their labor and and
their ideas and their creativity
creating kind of the downstream
opportunity for people that,
you know, 20 years ago would have been
doing a different job.
The example I use is
in ancient Mesopotamia, 98% of people
were in agriculture. And all of a sudden
somebody invents the plow. And if you're
thinking, well, we're all farmers,
we're doomed. That may have been a
mindset, but the reality was that led us
to inventing education and health care
and actually governments and all these
things. And I think that that's to your
point, like that's the thing I think we
sort of forget is that we've had huge
huge upheavals. Like literally taking
going from 98% and, you know,
agriculture to all of a sudden where
they go. And and, you know, if we
thought back in the year 1800 and said,
hey,
we're going to get rid of almost all
farm jobs, people would be thinking,
well, what are we going to do? There's
going to be massive problems. And we'd
realize that, like you said, we created
all these new kinds of roles and entire
sectors of the economy and stuff. And
it's it's always hard to predict though.
It's always hard to predict where that's
going to be cuz we just imagine the
future is sort of the present what with
like shinier clothes and robots and
flying cars. And
And part of I think this is part of the
job of research and in organizations
that are close to technology producing
information to help people make the best
decisions. You know, Brad talked about
agency. Agency requires sort of an
individual characteristic, right? But it
also will require information about what
the market looks like, where technology
is going. And so, I feel that as a big
responsibility in what I'm doing here.
You know, our mission is to benefit all
humanity. And to do that, I want to make
sure people have the information they
need to the best of my ability, right?
We can't predict with perfect fidelity
what it all's going to be. And I can't
tell my own kids, much less anyone
else's kids. But if I can give good
information based on research, that'll
help people make better decisions and I
and I do think ultimately find a place
where they can flourish. We should also
keep in mind there's a lot of people who
can't participate in the economy the way
that they would like because of
extenuating circumstances in their life
that are, you know, born in part of
things like lack of access to health
care, lack of access to education. I
mean, we talked a little bit earlier
about what are the impacts that we might
see in parts of the developing world
where access to those resources is
scarce.
You know, there's the direct impact that
we have of how do you make make it
easier for someone to scale a small
business? That's going to be a clear
present and I think very positive set of
things that, you know, that happen.
There's a kind of second and third order
almost hidden impact that we also I
think, you know, Ronnie has the
challenge of having to figure out how to
measure this, but what happens when you
enable people to better manage health
care, right? Or better manage the health
care of someone who is dependent on
them, you know,
a sibling or, you know, a parent or
something like that. What happens when
you raise the education level, you know,
in in the educational outcome levels by
2%? Right? And what is the kind of
second and third order effect of that as
a downstream impact on on the economy
and on, you know, on on on people's
ability to participate in the economy.
So,
you know, there's there's kind of the
direct way to look at this. I think
there's also the indirect way to look at
this. And that's where I, you know, I
just defer to to to Ronnie on on
whatever he can measure. I think
I think this is a really good point
though, Brad. And that's something I've
been thinking is hard to measure, but
important here is coaching, mentoring,
counseling.
When he talked about people who can't
fully participate in the economy, my
mind immediately went to there's so many
people who have so much to offer, but
maybe uh they're neurodivergent or maybe
they need a coach or someone to help
them get to the next level or a level of
counseling and behavioral health, which
we don't have broad access to in many
cases. It's expensive. And depending if
you live in a part of the country or the
world where you don't have access to
that, you're sort of sidelined. And, you
know, economists use the technical term
of labor force participation. What it
really means is you're sidelined. You
you can't participate. But if we could
help people
compared to having no help now, some
help, um we could help them participate
in the economy more fully. And that can
unlock a lot of potential. And I do
think any equation, any cost-benefit
analysis, any sort of
sort of reckoning about what's going to
happen in the economy needs to also
consider people who are participating in
the way they could now getting enabled.
I think I think that's a really
important point. And we'll try to
measure it, but even now I think it
should be thought about um in that way.
I think we in in developed economies
sometimes have a habit of
forgetting the things we have that other
people don't have. Like if you want
legal help, you hire a lawyer, but if
you're living in a subsistence level,
you know, economy, like that's hard. You
can't do that. You know, financial
planning. Everybody would benefit I
mean, the people who benefit most from
financial planning are people who
haven't had access to financial
education. I think that's an exciting
area. And I think that certainly we're
going to start seeing those effects
eventually when you start to see what
happens when you unlock so many of the
people around the world by just the
circumstances of where they were born
and had access to didn't have access to
that information or expertise. And I
think that's going to be very cool to
see how AI makes that possible. We've
seen just through ChatGPT alone how
people are able to use it as educational
tutors, helping translations, and
helping small businesses, helping people
who have to work in communication, etc.
And that's been a benefit. And I think
that we've seen in some situations where
you have a tool, let's say translation,
people often think like, oh, that's
going to decrease the need for
translators, but actually can increase
it because all of a sudden a company
that never did business overseas now can
one send out query letters, etc. and now
find themselves dealing with an entirely
different country and new economy. And
that's increased demand for human skill.
Do you think this is going to be
happening in other places? Do you think
this is going to be just a big where
area of opportunity or is it just going
to be minimal? Look, what we actually
see in our in our data at OpenAI is when
we cut the price of our models, which is
really cutting the price of
intelligence, we see a disproportionate
increase in demand for that model. And
so,
and we see that with ChatGPT, too. When
we make better intelligence available
and more of it available,
people use it more, right? And we don't
see the upper bound yet on
kind of how intelligence and demand
correlate. It seems like there's just
this relationship that the more we can
make really great intelligence available
more cheaply, the more consumption there
will be around that that thing. And so,
if you think about kind of how that
plays out in an economic context,
you know, what happens when you've got,
you know, if you can cut the price of
good legal advice for example by a
factor of a hundred,
you know, do you see a corresponding
thousand X increase in the demand for
legal services? Same in health care,
same in education, same in software
engineering, same in any other thing.
And I don't think we've we've quite come
to terms with what that means.
And if you think about, you know,
thousand X demand increases kind of
across every segment,
that's a lot of strain, right? That's a
lot of demand in in the economy, which
is a good thing. But, you know, I think
there's and ultimately people are going
to have to kind of like organize
themselves to figure out how to serve
all of that need and and and and be
there to serve those, you know, that
demand and in those in those needs.
Which means that you need people who are
going to come up with ideas, take
initiative, go start things, go create
things, right? And so, that's the
dynamism I think of the economy that's
under appreciated when we talk about
what the impact of AI will be.
And it's the thing that we see at a
very, you know, at a micro level now at
OpenAI, but
I think, you know, we should look at as
as we make intelligence, you know, as
Sam has a phrase I love, too cheap to
meter.
What does it really mean for
the world's ability to to create output?
And then, you know, ultimately I think
that the downstream impact of of that
we'll find is that it actually had an
incredibly enhancing effect on on on
jobs, on productivity.
And, you know, that's that's the
positive future I think we're we're
excited about. And as an economist, I'll
just say this could be really exciting
for people in those professions in the
following way. When you sort of make
intelligence too cheap to meter and that
intelligence is providing, let's say,
legal advice or financial management
advice or advice on real estate, all of
a sudden you get a bunch of new people
accessing that never could access it
before, right? So, it's opening up the
market number one. And then once those
people sort of start making decisions,
right? Buying a property, right? Making
a transaction,
engaging with legal services, they're
going to have higher and higher level
needs, right? And all of a sudden the
business that they're running is more
complex or they have two properties to
manage. And then there's a bunch of
people who are trained in those fields
who never served this market before, but
now they're going to come to them with
more complex questions. And if that
accelerates, that could create
tremendous opportunities in those
fields. It will be about deciding which
part of the market to focus on, what
kinds of skills you want to leverage.
But I think for real estate agents and
insurance brokers and financial
advisors, there's a potential for this
to actually onboard a tremendous number
of people who never would have access to
their services to begin with. That's the
excitement of reducing the cost of
intelligence dramatically, which is
what's happening.
I would say an example that's I think
kind of
very close to home here is that
every time there's a new model or in
some new technology from OpenAI, you'll
get some pundit who'll go, well, how
come they're still hiring? And I think I
I I'm a growth mentality person. I'm
like, well, of course they're hiring
because and
I want to get a to get a sanity check on
this. My prediction I've told people is
more people are going to work for OpenAI
than work before it. That it's not like
all of a sudden, great, we've got a new
tool, you don't need people doing these
roles before. The roles change, but
you're going to want more people.
Do you think would you agree about my
assessment of the trajectory of OpenAI,
more people here after AGI? I think it
will be more people after AGI. I think I
kind of go back to what I said earlier
of how do you, you know, the the kind of
demarcator of of the impact of AI being
about kind of more output per person,
right? And so, you now have, you know,
you get this kind of scale down
basically in kind of how large of a firm
or company can be run by some number of
people. So, you know, a large enterprise
had to be run by 100,000 people before,
maybe that number comes down to 50,000,
eventually 20,000, you know, 5,000,
1,000, you know, 100, and so on and so
forth.
And maybe it's, you know, it's an even
steeper fall off than that.
And so, I I suspect and hope OpenAI will
be kind of no different in that, you
know, especially given what we do. Mhm.
And so, you know, I think but I think
going back to also the point I made
around
what do we see as the second and
third-order impacts of the deflationary
aspect of intelligence, right? Is it it
creates significant and disproportionate
demand for the service. And so, what
does that mean for us? It means we need
more people that can help work with more
users across more use cases. It means we
need more people helping policy makers
think about the problem. It means we
need a chief economist. You know, if
you'd asked me 3 years ago if we would
have needed a chief economist, I would
have I would have said I don't
maybe in 2030. But here we are. And so,
you know, I think that that's
I think it will be more people, but
I think it is kind of somewhat
consequence of both of the trends I just
mentioned. I helping out a friend who's
working on uh
training models and stuff to help with
cancer nutrition. And we were talking to
somebody from OpenAI yesterday, and they
said, "Would it be helpful to talk to
the health team?" And I'm like, "You
have a health team?" They said, "Yeah,
we do." I'm like, "Well, great." And
then, you know, having a conversation
with them. And that was a thing like,
"Wow, this is what a great area of
expansion." And I think that
I I hope that other companies are sort
of thinking about how these tools really
are augment and amplify and create
opportunities for growth because I think
that if you have a good talent, you want
to keep that talent and find more
talent, not find a way to not need
talent. I think that'll put them at a
disadvantage if they're
you know, not being forward-thinking
about that. Yeah, I mean, if you can get
incredible leverage on every marginal
person, you know, 10x, 100x leverage
that you could get, you know, 10 from 10
years ago or something like that. Like
in some sense, why why wouldn't you want
more people? Yeah. You know, if Ronnie's
team can now, you know, with a team of
10 people do economic analysis across,
you know, 10 different subjects or 10
different sectors versus you know, two
because every person now is doing three
or four times more.
I mean, that's an amazing thing, right?
And so, it just means that we as a as a
company are capable of doing more. And
the thing that we kind of said, "Oh,
we'll we'll handle that in 2026 or
2027." It's like, "No, no, we can do it
right now." Do you have favorite chat
GPT tips or advice you give people on
using AI?
I have a few. I think the coaching is so
valuable. You know, you meet so many
people who they say, "Hi, I'm a
religious chat GPT user." And you find
out like they're not even logged in or
they don't know about deep research. And
you're like, "Oh my gosh, there's so
much more you can do." For me, the
coaching has been so valuable on diet
and fitness. Brad doesn't know this, but
I'm training for a
a big athletic adventure to play
basketball at Duke at a Coach K camp.
Okay, I've requested time off for He's
got to approve it. Mhm.
I got to be in good shape cuz otherwise
I'm going to get like I'm going to like
tear my ACL the first second I get out
there. So, chat GPT's helping me over
the next 4 weeks like really get in the
best shape of like I guess middle age.
And
how is it doing that? Well, it's looking
at the food I'm eating and giving me
advice and giving me calorie breakdowns.
It's reducing the decisions I need to
make by analyzing what I've had that
day. And it's helping me track weight
and and other kind of fitness
indicators. And so, in doing that, I
have this like map out to 4 weeks which
we're going really, really hard with the
jobs we have and the travel that we're
all doing to manage. And so, I feel like
that's a pretty simple one that you
don't need super advanced tools to do,
but it's really changed my outlook and
made this possible. So, that's my
favorite one of this month. The the
thing I do, especially now with O3, and
I think O3 is a model kind of broke
through the the barrier for me. It kind
of crossed the chasm. And I look, I all
of our earlier models were great. O3,
there's something deeply great.
And the thing I use it for is to
actually like challenge me. So,
a lot of my job is is I'm trying to make
assumptions about how things work just
based on kind of empirical observation
of what companies are using us in
certain ways, what users tell me they
like or don't like, and um
in some ways, you know, like I said
early on, our job is to predict the
future. O3 has an incredible ability to
actually be a question asker. So, I
think people think of chat GPT as
something that you can only ask
questions to.
But a lot of times what I really want it
to do is actually ask me questions and
challenge my assumptions and make an
counter-argument to me of why something
works or doesn't work the way I think it
might work.
And it's an incredibly effective thought
partner in that regard. And it can be at
really big things,
you know, or it could be at really, you
know, low-level dumb things. I just got
a puppy.
And I you know, I've had dogs my whole
life. And
you know, we've we've had a puppy that
now is um
is is been
I would say not the easiest when it
comes to getting her to calm down and go
to sleep. And you know, my wife and I
could not figure out how to how to get
her to do this. And so, chat GPT kind of
being a resource for challenging our
assumptions about what we thought we
knew about puppy training, for example,
has been an interesting experience.
O3 is something special. And and we
talked a lot about you know, what
happens when the models can can push as
well as pull in. And then when they can
kind of, you know, get you to think
about a thing. And that has been just
just been amazing. O3 has really been a
fun experience talking to. It's the
first time I felt like it's not just
something that's
kind of telling me a thing that it
looked up and versus something it
thought about.
Brad, Ronnie, thank you very much. This
has been great. And I hope we can speak
again in the future about this and maybe
check on the progress of all of this.
Looking forward to it. Thanks for having
us.